---
title: A Dumb Smartphone
date: "2019-11-29"
description: The pangs of having a smartphone that isn't that smart.
---

Small preface: This article is meant to be entirely satirical and comedic in nature; I don't harbor any ill-will towards my parents or hold any bottled up emotions for not having a phone (spoiler) for a while. It's just ironic is all.

I'm a computer science major; that much ought to be clear by now (how do you think I made this website? Magic?). Now, often, if someone is a computer science major, then one can reasonably assume that that someone is good with technology. They may not know how to troubleshoot your printer, but that someone can probably figure out how to write a website or something if they didn't know how to. It's also fair to say that that someone probably has a good understanding of phones, how they work, and maybe even how to develop apps for them. I, however, am not that someone. I _should_ be that someone, and have the knowhow for working with smartphones, but I missed the boat on learning phones enough so that I can't help friends or family figure them out. It's a blessing in some cases. If someone is having trouble with their phone, I just pull the "I didn't have a phone until college" card, and that usually gets them off my back. If they persist, I just tell them I don't have a smartphone, which is partially true, and then they realize that I'm no longer a valuable asset to them, and cut off all ties with me. Win-win!

But it's worth digging a little further back as to why I didn't have a phone for so long, and why I only obtained one right before my freshman year at college. My childhood aligned pretty much perfectly with the release of more advanced phones. As iPhones were releasing, me and my peers old enough to have a phone to stay in touch with parents, talk to each other, yada yada insert other perk of having a phone here. And I saw some kids I know getting phones and starting to exchange numbers, so I figure, "Hey, it'd be cool to have a phone to join in on the fun!" And away I went, on a journey to the oracle of my parents to see if a phone was in my future. Mind you, this was when I was 13, so it wasn't like I was 8 asking for a car. The timelines lined up. I arbitrarily ask my mom first, to which she classically said, "Ask you dad." Fair point, she's way behind on tech, probably for the best anyhow to not have her be the arbiter of anything tech-related in my future. Off to my pops I went, to which he said, and I'll never forget it, "No, you don't have friends." Damn, that cuts deep. "But," I thought, "he's right." And when he's right, he's right. At the time, I didn't have any friends. Now before you bring out your torches and pitchforks over such a callous remark, I did have "friends." They just weren't the type who _needed_ to be contacted via smartphones. Keep in mind, I asked this when landlines and portable phones were still being used (and still are, in my 21+ year old house at least). So to say, "you don't have any friends" is really a condensed version of, "No, you don't have any friends worth getting you a smartphone for." Or, that's how I cope with it, anyways.

And that's how things were for for high school. To put into use an elective I took in college, COMM 1000, aka "Intro to Communications," in the [diffusion of innovations theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffusion_of_innovations), I would be called a "laggard." Most of my family falls in this boat, to be honest. But for someone my age, in my field, I was way, way, way behind on getting a phone of any kind, smart or otherwise. Most of my entire family all got phones before I did. Let's talk about each one in a little more detail in order of acquirement, since each has their own story that could elicit a small chuckle.

When phones came around, my dad figured having one would be good in case he was at work and needed to get in touch with us. So he picked up a burner phone. Yes, the types of phones drug dealers use in _Law & Order_ or _The Wire_. I still sometimes see a burner phone get pulled out of someone's pocket and think, "Ah, my dad had great taste." My dad's phone also ran on minutes, but eventually he needed to take pictures, which a flip-phone can't do (drug dealers don't usually take pictures of their product, do they?). So he upgraded to a smartphone. Now, when he got his flip phone, I figured, "Good idea, always nice to be able to call when he's out!" But then he upgraded to a smartphone. A nice one too, even compared to the one I have as of writing this. Lots of space for apps, better camera, better signal, more responsive. We'll get to my phone, but not before exploring the rest of my family tree.

My mom getting a phone manifested itself after seeing my dad get one. Good reasoning, poor execution -- I made a passing comment earlier about how she's pretty bad with technology, she shouldn't be the arbiter of my technological future, etc. etc. And it's quite true. My mom is atrocious with technology, even she herself admits it. Granted, she's been getting better in recent years. She uses an iPad now to view her email sometimes instead of a desktop, or read books, which is great. Progress! Buuuut, she still faces almost insurmountable hurdles like signing into email, or filling out an online form. So you'd think she wouldn't get a phone because she wouldn't know how to use it. And yet, a phone she got, before me, in case it wasn't obvious by the tone of this article. The best part was, she didn't even use it. How little did she use it, you might ask. So little, in fact, that when I called her one day to pick me up from somewhere, the call went through, oh yes it did. That was the first red flag. She always had her phone off, but I figure I'd call anyways to see if she would notice it light up or something. Flip phones are magical that way, blinking or making noise for unknown reasons. When it did go through, the person who answered had a southern drawl, something my mom certainly doesn't have. Now, to my teenage mind, it just didn't add up. Why would someone else have my mom's phone? It's a flip phone, there's probably a higher return on investment to buy a new phone than take someone else's. So I just hung up and tried again, only to hear the same voice answer, slightly more irritated. I hung up again, tried once more, each time asking, "Mom?" After the third go-around, I just gave up. Turns out, the phone company noticed such a large bout of inactivity on her phone, that they just gave the number associated with my mom's phone to someone else. And in all fairness, that's probably for the best. The phone ran on minutes, so it's not like they were charging us for nothing. A few years later, she got a new phone, this one a bit more advanced, and now has a monthly plan, so no phone number hot potato.

I don't know where in the timeline these next acquisitions fit in, but I do know it was before I got my phone: My grandparents and my two great aunts. They each got a phone before me, which is leaning on the side of insanity. Both of my grandparents' phones are pretty spiffy, all things considered. Again, like my dad's new phone, lots of space, easy to use, etc. Even more surprisingly, they get more calls than me! They're in their late 80s and early 90s, and have a more vibrant social life than I do. (Yes, yes, I know I wrote about how I don't go out and I'm not social, but just forget about that for a moment and go along with this). What's more, I have two great aunts who also have smart phones. They're in their 90s, and they too get more calls than me! Now, I don't know about you, but even if I don't get many calls myself or have any friends to add the contact info of, having a phone for myself just to call my parents seems reasonable, no? But hey, I somehow got by just fine. Probably because I never went out, so I had no need to have a phone in the first place.

When I eventually got a phone, it was the summer before college. Getting the phone spanned across two days. My dad and I went into the store, and just learned a bit about phones, what our options were, the different price points, etc. We've been an Apple family for our entire lives, so logic would dictate to get an iPhone, even at the high price it had. So that was that, the store said they would order it from a town over and have it in the next day. The next day came round, and it dawned on me and my dad that for someone like me, who, in reality, just needs _a_ way to contact my parents, I don't really need some super advanced phone with a huge space for apps and photos (like I have anything to photograph anyway). So we decided to go to the other end of the spectrum. Unfortunately, it wasn't a flip phone or pay-as-you-go phone, as _vintage_ as that would be, but a step up. A dumb smartphone. My current phone holds the following downloaded applications (as in, not built-in): Solitaire, Lyft, and a crossword app. That's it, and I am not kidding. There's other built-in apps like Chrome and Uber, but there's only enough leftover space for three apps, plus some pictures and notes. I have to figure out which apps to delete if I ever need a fourth app, and have developed quite an eye for decision making as these app dilemmas crop up.

Now, all this griping and moaning aside, I am perfectly content with my phone and the path to getting one. I take pride in being a computer science major, being able to make websites, program, design application architecture, all the while having the crummiest phone imaginable. Is this rooted deeper in some weird adoration of being contrarian, or am I just being realistic with my needs for a phone? Probably both.
