---
title: My Mom's Writing
date: "2019-12-02"
description: An exposé on my mom's writing.
---

My mom has always been a writer at heart. Even during her early years, she worked in copyrighting, and was constantly surrounded by written works, books, and more. It's through that that she developed a great sense of style, humor, and voice that I always enjoy reading, and have even inherited in my own writing style. Throughout my life, my mom has always wanted to go from being a writer to being an author, and she's one step closer to that: She was recently hired by Cricket Magazine to write a freelance piece about Laura Bridgman, the first deaf-blind person to get a formal education, at 600 words no less! 600 might seem like a small amount to an english major, or it might seem like a lot an engineer. But in either case, it's an accomplishment worthy of praise. But she has done so much more than that: She's written countless stories, tales, and works, spanning across a multitude of genres, age groups, topics, and years. And I want to take the time to explore what she's written at large, the broad strokes, the key points if you will. As I remember, she first began writing journals about me (I have an admirer!). And she still does, even though she might not want me to know that. That was my first introduction into her writing for fun, and not for a job. And while she still journals, I want to give a rundown on her literature works.

Her first work was a teenage novel about a girl who finds some candycane decorations, and finds that she can use each one to make a wish. Ranging from wishing for her family to her friends, it's a wonderful and heartfelt story about a selfless girl changing the lives around her for the better after this discovery, all to find in the end (spoiler alert) that it was her own doing, not the candycanes. For her first piece of to-be authored work, I loved every part of it. But that love goes beyond the story itself. She and I would sit down from time to time, and she would read me passages or a sentence and get my thoughts on it. This was when I was a bit younger, and since I was in the target age group, it was a symbiotic relationship. Giving her feedback, having her cross something out and write over it, knowing that _I_ was the one who influenced that choice; it was such a unique and exciting feeling, knowing I was a part of her writing process.

Later on, she found herself writing manuscripts that I feel are akin to Aesopic fables. One is about a chameleon who didn't want to change his color. Set in the context of an army camp (because they use camouflage, get it?), a chameleon faces a dilemma of not wanting to change his color, yet is told to do so by his drill instructor, and must make a choice for himself. Another is about a lone boy named Nero who found himself being picked on for his name at summer camp. Ever strong, he perseveres beyond the derision from other kids, and performs a heroic act in front of them, thereby going from Nero to a hero. Perhaps my favorite is on the later side of this "era," if you will. This piece was a bit more fleshed out and cerebral, about a Jewish boy who has to perform a mitzvah in order to become a Bar Mitzvah. This boy decides to aid a homeless man down on his luck whom he often sees presiding by this boy's synagogue -- it's a wonderful tale of a blossoming friendship between two people who would otherwise never interact with one another.

In these past few years, at the time of writing this, she has now found herself writing about low-key or unsung historical figures. As she calls it, she specializes in writing about long forgotten historical figures. These can range from suffragettes, to women practicing male-dominated sports, to even identifying the first deaf-blind person to get a formal education, per her new piece to be featured in Cricket Magazine.

\*\*\*\*\*

I was recently watching a show on the BBC called _Wallander_, and was absolutely fascinated by the main character and his father. The main character, Kurt, is the son of an artist. Being a child of an artist has always fascinated me on an heirloom sort of level, where the parent creates something that the child can then cherish and show to future generations. After Kurt's father passes away (it's early in the series, don't worry about "spoilers"), Kurt takes some of his father's works for himself to hang in his house. He has something to remember his father by, something that he can show his kids and say, "Your grandfather made this." For some time, I wondered what that would be like for myself, to be able to have something I can hold onto and remember a parent by. And over time, I've come to the realization that I've been surrounded by an artist my entire life: My mom (cue the audience awwing). Its her writing and works that I can cherish for years to come, and show to my kids and say, "Your grandmother made this." I will always root for my mom to become a published author, but in my eyes, she's already made it: Her works, both professional and personal, have inspired me to write myself. And that's just one of the many things I'll cherish about her.
